.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"

.TH grate 1 "OCTOBER 2021" erikbra "Database"
.SH NAME
grate \- sql for the 20s

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B grate [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B grate 
is a SQL scripts migration runner.

The goal of grate is to be largely backwards compatible with RoundhousE, which is an amazing tool. 
It is initiated by the main maintainer of RoundhousE for the last three years.

While early versions of grate may not support every last RoundhousE feature, those features that are implemented should work identically, 
or with only very small changes. For detailed information see the migration docco.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "--database <database>"
OBSOLETE: Please specify the connection string instead

.IP "-c, -cs, --connectionstring, --connstring <connectionstring> (REQUIRED)"
You now provide an entire connection string. ServerName and Database are obsolete.

.IP "-f, --files, --sqlfilesdirectory <sqlfilesdirectory>"
The directory where your SQL scripts are [default: .]

.IP "-o, --output, --outputPath <outputPath>" 
This is where everything related to the migration is stored. 

This includes any backups, 
all items that ran, permission dumps, logs, etc. [default: Local app data folder]

.IP "-s, --instance, --server, --servername <servername>"
OBSOLETE: Please specify the connection string instead.
 
.IP "-a, -acs, -csa, --adminconnectionstring, --adminconnstring <adminconnectionstring>"
The connection string for connecting to master, if you want to create the database.  
Defaults to the same as --connstring.

.IP "--accesstoken <accesstoken>"
OBSOLETE: Please specify the connection string instead.

.IP "-ct, --commandtimeout <commandtimeout>"
This is the timeout when commands are run. 
This is not for admin commands or restore. [default: 60]

.IP "-cta, --admincommandtimeout <admincommandtimeout>"
This is the timeout when administration commands are run (except for restore, which has its own). 
[default: 300]

.IP "--databasetype, --dbt, --dt <mariadb|oracle|postgresql|sqlserver>"
Tells grate what type of database it is running on. [default: sqlserver]

.IP "-t, --transaction, --trx <transaction>"
Run the migration in a transaction

.IP "--env, --environment <environment>"
Environment Name - This allows grate to be environment aware and only run scripts 
that are in a particular environment based on the name
of the script.  

\'something.ENV.LOCAL.sql\' would only be run if --env=LOCAL was set.

.IP "--sc, --schema, --schemaname <schemaname>"
The schema to use for the migration tables [default: grate]

.IP "-ni, --noninteractive, --silent"
Silent - tells grate not to ask for any input when it runs.

.IP "--version <version>"
Database Version - specify the version of the current migration directly on the command line.

.IP "--drop"
Drop - This instructs grate to remove the target database. 
Unlike RoundhousE grate will continue to run the migration scripts after the drop.

.IP "--disabletokenreplacement, --disabletokens"
Tokens - This instructs grate to not perform token replacement ({{somename}}). 
Defaults to false.

.IP "-w, --warnononetimescriptchanges"
WarnOnOneTimeScriptChanges - Instructs grate to execute changed one time scripts 
(DDL / DML in Upfolder) that have previously been run against the database instead of failing. 
A warning is logged for each one time script that is rerun. Defaults to false.

.IP "--usertokens, --ut <usertokens>"
User Tokens - Allows grate to perform token replacement on custom tokens ({{my_token}}). 

Set as a key=value pair, eg

\'--ut=my_token=myvalue\'. 

Can be specified multiple times.

.IP "--donotstorescriptsruntext"
DoNotStoreScriptsRunText - This instructs grate to not store the full script text in the 
database. Defaults to false.

.IP "--baseline"
Baseline - This instructs grate to mark the scripts as run, but not to actually run 
anything against the database. Use this option if you already have scripts that have been run 
through other means (and BEFORE you start the new ones).

.IP " --forceanytimescripts, --runallanytimescripts"
RunAllAnyTimeScripts - This instructs grate to run any time scripts every time it is 
run even if they haven't changed. Defaults to false.

.IP "--dryrun"
This instructs grate to log what would have run, but not to actually run anything 
against the database.  Use this option if you are trying to figure out what grate is going to do.

.IP "-v, --verbosity <Critical|Debug|Error|Information|None|Trace|Warning>"
Verbosity level (as defined here: https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.LogLevel)

.IP "-?, -h, --help"
Show help and usage information

.SH AUTHOR
Erik A. Brandstadmoen <erik@brandstadmoen.net>
